---
title: What is Yggdrasil?
description: Secure routing network
---

## What is Yggdrasil?

Yggdrasil is first and foremost a cryptographically secure (no, no Bitcoin
is involved) network where the addresses are generated by a public-private
key pair. This means no central authority hands out addresses which addresses
the problem of relying on central authorities - no more need to be said.

The only routing advertisements being sent out will be from nodes
advertising their address. Therefore they can make a megitimate signature
on those advertisement messages - something all nodes can verify.

If advertisement for $A$ signed _by_ $A_key$ is received, then it is
easy to verify that the message originated from the _real_ $A$ and
that the message is intact (has not been tampered with).

### Usage

So every user must be an Yggdrasil user right? The future goal is
a solid **YES**! That is the goal, for every user of the network
to be operating on it in a secure manner.

However, Yggdrasil allows people to interact with it via private
IPv6 addresses. It pushes the keys through a mechanism that pumps
out an IPv6 address. This mechanism compresses and hence moves
one from a higher bit-width key to a lower one - this means that
clashes are perhaps possible. Think of two keys $A_key$ and $B_key$
are hashed and we only take a small portion of the hash - there
is a possibility. However, this is the most well-known way to
access _services_ on Yggdrasil via the standard `AF_INET6`
(IPv6 address format).

Building the Yggdrasil network out though does allow it to
grow and eventully when Yggdrasil does build a way to interface
with its packet interface then a much higher bit-wdith
public key fingerprint can be used.



TODO: Continue this

## How to use it

With what novasredes offers you can either hook your [own router](/redes/yggdrasil/own_node)
up and join the mesh whilst offering routing _via_ your node **or**
you can find the nearest node and try connect to the hotspot
it offers.

TODO: Add photo here showing WiFi hotspot

The SSID is `NovasRedes N:YGG,T:CID` and the password is `acessoparacidadeiros`.

After connecting you will be assigned an IPv6 address for
use **only** within the Yggdrasil network. This will give
an address within the `300::/8` range and is a subset of
the Yggdrasil node you actually just connected with.

Once connected you will also have your DNS reconfigured to
use one of the Yggdrasil DNS servers - this allows you to
use certain domains that are resolvable within the Yggdrasil
network.

In terms of testing your connection you can try accessing
certain:

1. [`novasredes.ygg`](http://novasredes.ygg)
	* TODO: Docker+Caddy+Yggdrasil setup unique web serving node for this site (as a mirror)
2. [`acetone.ygg`](http://acetone.ygg/)

## Running your own node

For more information on this please see [this guide](/redes/yggdrasil/own_node).

## Reaching the _wider_ Yggdrasil

TODO: Add information on upstream Yggdrasil peerings that we have have

We maintain "upstream" peerings that reach out to other Yggdrasil nodes
and we do this at more than just one single node. This means that is such
a "downstream" node goes down then re-routing can occur and another node
can allow access via the "upstream".

| Upstream peer URI | Downstream node |
|-------------------|-----------------|
|	`tls://yggdrasil.deavmi.assigned.network:2001` | Planned home pole node |
|	N/A | Planned munic node |
|	N/A | Planned JC Grobelaar node |

We use the word "upstream" and "downstream" as the concepts are not
really called that in Yggdrasil.
